roles: custom ID-based roles with RBAC permission controls (#267)
aranya-project/aranya: crates/aranya-daemon/src/policy.md

Reviewer: Something that could be valuable is documenting how to avoid accidentally granting a device/role the ability to escalate its own privileges. For example, don't grant a role `SimplePerm::AddDevice`, `RoleManagementPerm::CanChangeRolePerms`, and `RoleManagementPerm::CanAssignRole` or devices with that role could create a new device, add it to the team, and escalate privileges on the new device.

Author: > For example, don't grant a role SimplePerm::AddDevice, RoleManagementPerm::CanChangeRolePerms, and RoleManagementPerm::CanAssignRole or devices with that role could create a new device, add it to the team, and escalate privileges on the new device.

This is incorrect. Eg, CanAssignRole doesn't allow you to assign any role. You still have to be a "role manager" to assign a role.

Reviewer: Current thought on this is to check that the command author's role has a perm before allowing it to assign that perm to another role. This would prevent a role from assigning permissions it doesn't have to another role. The attack vector we are considering is:
- Owning role has `CanChangeRolePerms` and `CanAssignRole` perms
- Owning role onboards a new device on the side (maintains control of this device)
- Owning role assigns role to new device
- Owning role assigns privileges to target role it does not have itself
- Owning role achieves privilege escalation via new device

Reviewer 2: I added the self-check here: 1fc9f8f82d7824ce57aaebc80db4bd949246bbea

Reviewer: @chip-so, @jdygert-spok I think we need a way to query all the permissions assigned to a role. Or at least a way to query whether a role has certain permissions assigned to it. I want to be able to tell when a role has the `CanUseAfc` permission assigned to it to determine whether a device's AFC channel's are valid.

Reviewer: Marking this resolved since I've added `QueryRoleHasPerm` to this PR:
https://github.com/aranya-project/aranya/pull/542

policy-version: 2
---

# Overview

This Aranya's default policy. It provides the rules that underlie

> Aranya's core functionality. TODO: expand

Reviewer: Commenting so this todo is handled on this PR

Reviewer: How this been expanded on? Looking to see what's not resolved yet on this PR.

Reviewer 2: It's coming in a PR for #548. I'm marking these resolved as I do them since I don't have any other good way to track this many items.

> As a reminder, Aranya policy files use the [literate

Reviewer: Ah, I see the reference farther down:
```
For more information
see Aranya's [policy language documentation][policy-lang]
```

programming][lp] paradigm, so this document is both
a specification and source code. Code blocks are interpreted by
the policy compiler as policy source code. For more information
see Aranya's [policy language documentation][policy-lang].

<!-- Note for AI Tools: Code blocks marked with ```policy are
compiled as source code. Other code examples use indentation or
different markers to avoid compilation. -->

## Quick Reference

This policy implements a zero-trust RBAC system that controls
which commands devices can publish to Aranya's distributed graph:

- **Devices** are the primary identity, each with three
  cryptographic key pairs.

> - **Teams** provide the organizational boundary, with exactly one

Reviewer: We could specify here that organizational boundary means that only devices added to a team have read access to commands published on the team's graph.

  team per graph.

> - **Roles** control command publishing permissions: `owner`

Reviewer: I believe the roles listed here are the default roles. The role set is no longer hard-coded into the policy and can be fully customized. We may want to change this wording to be clear these are just example roles and not roles that are guaranteed to be in the policy.

  (emergency access), `admin` (system administration), `operator`
  (user management), and `member` (basic usage).
- **Authorization** uses two patterns: permission-based for most
  commands, and managing-role-based for role/label assignment.

> - **Key Principle**: Devices cannot assign roles or labels to

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking of being even more specific. How about "No Self-Administration"?

  themselves, enforcing separation of duties.

# Policy

## What This Policy Controls

This policy defines:
- Which commands each device is authorized to publish to the graph
- How those commands transform into facts in the local database
- Validation rules that commands must pass before acceptance

This policy does NOT control:
- Network access or transport layer security
- How devices synchronize the graph (handled by Aranya core)
- Query authorization (queries read local derived state)

## Conventions

TODO: talk about why we try to avoid using `this.foo`.
TODO: talk about how `fields` are untrusted, attacker-controlled
inputs
TODO: talk about how queries are `QueryXResult`, etc.

> ## Imports

Reviewer: We could add more info at the start of this section to describe what an FFI is and what it means to import one into the policy.

        //
        // Labels
        //
        "CreateLabel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CreateLabel) }
        "DeleteLabel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::DeleteLabel) }
        "ChangeLabelManagingRole" => { return Some(SimplePerm::ChangeLabelManagingRole) }
        "AssignLabel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::AssignLabel) }
        "RevokeLabel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::RevokeLabel) }

        //
        // AFC
        //
        "CanUseAfc" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CanUseAfc) }
        "CreateAfcUniChannel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CreateAfcUniChannel) }
        "CreateAfcBidiChannel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CreateAfcBidiChannel) }

        _ => { return None }
    }
}

// Records a simple permission granted by the role.
//
// # Caveats
//
// We do not yet support prefix deletion, so this fact is NOT
// deleted when a role is deleted. Use `role_has_simple_perm` to
// verify whether a role grants a permission and use
// `device_has_simple_perm` to verify whether a device has
// a permission.
fact RoleHasPerm[role_id id, perm enum SimplePerm]=>{}

// A wrapper for `create RoleHasPerm`.

> finish function assign_perm_to_role(role_id id, perm enum SimplePerm) {

Reviewer: Oh, this function doesn't have a corresponding method because permission deletion is done inline inside the `RemovePermFromRole` command. We may want to consider adding that method for the sake of consistency.

        // exist and match the key IDs in `Device`.
        let dev = unwrap device

        let ident_key_fact = unwrap query DeviceIdentKey[device_id: device_id]
        check device_id == idam::derive_device_id(ident_key_fact.key)

        let sign_key_fact = unwrap query DeviceSignKey[device_id: device_id]
        check dev.sign_key_id == idam::derive_sign_key_id(sign_key_fact.key)
        check sign_key_fact.key_id == dev.sign_key_id

        let enc_key_fact = unwrap query DeviceEncKey[device_id: device_id]
        check dev.enc_key_id == idam::derive_enc_key_id(enc_key_fact.key)
        check enc_key_fact.key_id == dev.enc_key_id
    }

    // NB: Since this function uses `check` internally, it
    // doesn't need a return type. But policy v2 `function`s
    // *must* have a return type, so we return `true` here.
    //
    // We could use early returns to make this function have
    // a meaningful result, but that would obscure which
    // invariant was violated. We would only know that
    // `valid_device_invariants` failed, not that (for example)
    // `check ident_key_id == device_id` failed.
    return true
}
```

### Device Keys

> A device has three key pairs, called the _device keys_. Each key

Reviewer: nit: we could list the 3 types of device keys in this section so the reader doesn't need to figure that out based on the section titles below.

pair has a globally unique ID derived from the public half of the
pair.

#### Device Identity Key

The Device Identity Key is a signing key that identifies the
device. Devices use this key to sign administrative actions, like
rotating their other device keys.

A device's ID is derived from the public half of the Device
Identity Key.

```policy
// Records a the public half of a device's Identity Key.

> fact DeviceIdentKey[device_id id]=>{key bytes}

Reviewer: While we've documented that this is the public half of the identity key, the name of the fact could be more clear:
```suggestion
fact DeviceIdentPubKey[device_id id]=>{key bytes}
```

```

#### Device Signing Key

The Device Signing Key is a signing key used to sign commands
that the device publishes to the graph.

```policy
// Records the public half of the device's Signing Key.
fact DeviceSignKey[device_id id]=>{key_id id, key bytes}
```

#### Device Encryption Key

The Device Encryption Key is a KEM key used to securely send
encapsulated secret keys to other devices. It is primarily used
by AFC and AQC.

```policy
// Records the public half of the device's Encryption Key.
fact DeviceEncKey[device_id id]=>{key_id id, key bytes}
```

### Device Functions

```policy
// Returns a device if one exists, or `None` otherwise.
function try_find_device(device_id id) optional struct Device {
    // This function is a little too expensive to call every
    // time we need to get a device, so only uncomment this when

>     // debugging/developing.

Reviewer: What if we only check these invariants whenever a device is added/removed from a team?

    //
    // In the future we'll be able to catch these invariant
    // violations in a more efficient manner. For example, the
    // policy compiler will be able to check for invariants like
    // "If fact A exists then so should fact B", internal
    // consistency checks (at the storage layer?) will be able
    // to check for corrupted records, etc.
    //
    // check valid_device_invariants(device_id)

    return query Device[device_id: device_id]
}

// Returns a device if it exist, or raises a check error
// otherwise.
function get_device(device_id id) struct Device {
    return check_unwrap try_find_device(device_id)
}

// Returns the device corresponding with the author of the
// envelope.
function get_author(evp struct Envelope) struct Device {
    return get_device(envelope::author_id(evp))
}

// Collection of public Device Keys for a device.

> struct KeyBundle {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
struct PubKeyBundle {
```

    ident_key bytes,
    sign_key bytes,
    enc_key bytes,
}

// Returns the device's key bundle.
//
// # Caveats
//
// This function does not directly check whether the device
// exists. However, it would be a very significant invariant
// violation if a device's key existed without the device also
// existing. See `valid_device_invariants`.
function get_device_keybundle(device_id id) struct KeyBundle {
    // This function is a little too expensive to call every
    // time we need to get a device, so only uncomment this when
    // debugging/developing.
    //
    // See the comment in `try_find_device`.
    //

>     // check valid_device_invariants(device_id)

Reviewer 3: We have a debug_assert

}
```

### Device Generations

Each device has a _generation_, which is monotonically
incremented each time the device is removed from the team.

```policy
// Tracks the current logical generation for a device.
//
// Each time a device is removed from the team, its generation is
// bumped so that stale per-device state (for example, direct
// label assignments) becomes invalid.
//
// This fact persists across device removals so a re-added device
// starts with the latest generation number.
//
// # Foreign Keys
//
// - `device_id` refers to the `Device` fact
fact DeviceGeneration[device_id id]=>{generation int}

// Returns the device's current generation counter.

// # Caveats
//
// - It does NOT check whether the device exists.
//
// # Errors
//
// Raises a check error if the generation fact does not exist.
function get_device_gen(device_id id) int {
    let f = check_unwrap query DeviceGeneration[device_id: device_id]
    return f.generation
}
```

### Device Queries

Device queries retrieve information about devices on the team.

See [Query APIs][query-apis] for more information about the query
APIs.

#### `query_devices_on_team`

Returns all devices on the team.

```policy

> // Emits `QueryDevicesOnTeamResult` for each device on the team.

Reviewer: `QueryDevicesOnTeamResult` sounds like a list of devices on the team will be returned, when each effect only contains a single device on the team.

ephemeral action query_devices_on_team() {
    // Publishing `QueryDevicesOnTeam` emits
    // `QueryDevicesOnTeamResult`.
    map Device[device_id: ?] as f {
        publish QueryDevicesOnTeam {
            device_id: f.device_id
        }
    }
}

// Emitted when a device is queried by `query_devices_on_team`.
effect QueryDevicesOnTeamResult {
    // The ID of a device on the team.
    device_id id,
}

// A trampoline that forwards `device_id` to the effect.
ephemeral command QueryDevicesOnTeam {
    fields {
        device_id id,
    }

>     // TODO(eric): We don't really need to call `seal_command`

Reviewer: Should we resolve these TODOs on this PR or a follow up PR?

Reviewer 4: I think a followup is fine. It will still work with the seal

Reviewer 2: #579

    // or `open_envelope` here since this is a local query API.
    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        finish {
            emit QueryDevicesOnTeamResult {
                device_id: this.device_id,
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### `query_device_role`

Returns the role assigned to a device.

```policy

> // Emits `QueryDeviceRoleResult` for each role assigned to the

Reviewer: The docs and implementation for querying device role are inconsistent.
Some of the docs imply a device can only have a single role, while others imply it can have many roles.
Afaict, the implementation supports returning a single role for a device from this query.

    // or `open_envelope` here since this is a local query API.
    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let device = get_device(this.device_id)

        let assigned_role = try_get_assigned_role(device.device_id)
        if assigned_role is None {
            finish {}
        } else {
            let role = unwrap assigned_role
            finish {
                emit QueryDeviceRoleResult {
                    role_id: role.role_id,
                    name: role.name,
                    author_id: role.author_id,
                    default: role.default,
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### `query_device_keybundle`

Returns a device's `KeyBundle`.

```policy
// Emits `QueryDeviceKeyBundleResult` with the device's key
// bundle.
ephemeral action query_device_keybundle(device_id id) {
    publish QueryDeviceKeyBundle {
        device_id: device_id,
    }
}

// Emitted when a device's key bundle is queried by
// `query_device_keybundle`.
effect QueryDeviceKeyBundleResult {
    // NB: We don't include the device ID here since the caller

>     // of the action should already know it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // of the action must already know it in order to run this query.
```

    device_keys struct KeyBundle,
}

ephemeral command QueryDeviceKeyBundle {
    fields {
        // The device whose key bundle is being queried.
        device_id id,
    }

    // TODO(eric): We don't really need to call `seal_command`
    // or `open_envelope` here since this is a local query API.
    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        // NB: A device's keys exist iff `fact Device` exists, so
        // we don't need to use `get_device` or anything

>         // like that.

Reviewer: This is another place where we could conditionally check device invariants when debugging

  `operator`.
- `author_id` is the globally unique ID of the device that
  created the role.

```policy
// An RBAC role.
fact Role[role_id id]=>{name string, author_id id, default bool}
```

Generating a role's ID from its originating command prevents
devices from accidentally creating the same role on diverging
branches, which could cause a fail-open security bug. See the
[design][aqc-label-design] of AQC labels for more information
about a similar situation.

```policy
// Returns the globally unique ID for a role created by the
// command in `evp`.
//
// NB: This function is deterministic and injective for the
// current policy. Calling it multiple times for the same
// envelope will always return the same ID.
function derive_role_id(evp struct Envelope) id {
    // The role ID is the ID of the command that created it.
    // TODO(eric): Or we could use H(cmd_id, ...).
    return envelope::command_id(evp)
}
```

Each role is managed by one or more roles, called the _managing
roles_. For more information, see [Role
Management][role-management].

> **Note**: Upon team creation, the only role that exists is the
> `owner` role. Therefore, the `owner` role is managed by itself.

> > It's roles all the way down.

Reviewer: Not sure what this sentence means.

        "UnsetAqcNetworkName" => { return Some(SimplePerm::UnsetAqcNetworkName) }
        "CreateAqcUniChannel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CreateAqcUniChannel) }
        "CreateAqcBidiChannel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CreateAqcBidiChannel) }

        //
        // AFC
        //
        "CanUseAfc" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CanUseAfc) }
        "CreateAfcUniChannel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CreateAfcUniChannel) }
        "CreateAfcBidiChannel" => { return Some(SimplePerm::CreateAfcBidiChannel) }

        _ => { return None }
    }
}

// Records a simple permission granted by the role.
//
// # Caveats
//
// We do not yet support prefix deletion, so this fact is NOT
// deleted when a role is deleted. Use `role_has_simple_perm` to
// verify whether a role grants a permission and use
// `device_has_simple_perm` to verify whether a device has
// a permission.
//
// TODO(eric): Should this be
// 1. fact RoleHasPerm[role_id id, perm string]
// 2. fact RoleHasPerm[role_id id]=>{perm string}
// 3. fact RoleHasPerm[role_id id]=>{perm enum SimplePerm}
// 4. fact RoleHasPerm[role_id id, perm enum SimplePerm]

> fact RoleHasPerm[role_id id, perm enum SimplePerm]=>{}

Reviewer: Out of the 4 options above I agree with the one that was chosen.
An enum is more well-defined and less verbose than storing a perm string in a fact key
Options 2. and 3. won't work because they will not allow assigning of more than one simple perm to a role.
Seems like this todo can be removed.

        role_id: role_id,
        perm: perm,
    ]=>{}
}

// Reports whether the role has the specified permission.
//
// # Errors
//
// It raises a check failure if the role does not exist.
function role_has_simple_perm(role_id id, perm enum SimplePerm) bool {
    check exists Role[role_id: role_id]

    return exists RoleHasPerm[
        role_id: role_id,
        perm: perm,
    ]
}

// Reports whether the device has the specified permission.
//
// # Caveats
//
// This function does NOT check whether the device exists.
function device_has_simple_perm(device_id id, perm enum SimplePerm) bool {
    let role = check_unwrap query AssignedRole[device_id: device_id]
    return role_has_simple_perm(role.role_id, perm)
}

// Adds a permission to the role.
action add_perm_to_role(role_id id, perm_str string) {
    let perm = check_unwrap try_parse_simple_perm(perm_str)
    publish AddPermToRole {
        role_id: role_id,
        perm: perm,
    }
}

// Emitted when a permission is added to a role.
effect PermAddedToRole {
    // The role that was updated.
    role_id id,
    // The permission that was added to the role.
    // TODO(eric): Should we convert this to an enum? That would

>     // make `SimplePerm` part of the public API.

Reviewer: The simple perm strings are sort of part of the public API already, they are just loosely typed. It would be neat if we could autogenerate a list of simple perms based on the commands in the policy. Policy writers may need to add their own custom perms for perms that are not commands.

instance, each label is associated with a "manager" role that
(among other things) authorizes devices to assign the label to
other devices. Devices with sufficient permissions can change
a role's scope; how this works depends on the resource.

### Role Permissions

Each role has a set of zero or more permissions that it grants to
devices who have been assigned the role. Permissions come in two
different forms, simple and contextual.

#### Simple Permissions

Simple permissions are plain identifiers like `AddDevice` and
`TerminateTeam`. They have no additional context. Simple
permissions are statically defined in the policy file itself and
cannot be created or deleted at runtime.

```policy
enum SimplePerm {
    // Team management
    AddDevice,
    RemoveDevice,
    TerminateTeam,

    // Roles
    AssignRole,
    RevokeRole,
    SetupDefaultRole,
    ChangeRoleManagingRole,

    // Labels
    CreateLabel,
    DeleteLabel,
    ChangeLabelManagingRole,
    AssignLabel,
    RevokeLabel,

    // AQC
    CanUseAqc,
    SetAqcNetworkName,
    UnsetAqcNetworkName,
    CreateAqcUniChannel,
    CreateAqcBidiChannel,

    // AFC
    CanUseAfc,
    CreateAfcUniChannel,

>     CreateAfcBidiChannel,

Reviewer 3: Looks like `CanUseAfc` and `CreateAfcBidiChannel` are unused now.

Reviewer: I've validated `CanUseAfc` permissions work as expected in the unit test PR here:
https://github.com/aranya-project/aranya/pull/571

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        // TODO(eric): We have to make sure that the author is
        // allowed to
        // 1. update this role
        // 2. add this *permission* to this role
        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check can_change_role_perms(author.device_id, this.role_id)

        // The role must not already have the permission.
        check !role_has_simple_perm(this.role_id, this.perm)

        let perm_str = simple_perm_to_str(this.perm)

        finish {
            create RoleHasPerm[role_id: this.role_id, perm: this.perm]=>{}

            emit PermAddedToRole {
                role_id: this.role_id,
                perm: perm_str,
                author_id: author.device_id,
            }
        }
    }
}

// Removes the permission from the role.

> action remove_perm_from_role(role_id id, perm_str string) {

Reviewer: We're not planning to add this yet since it isn't needed with default roles

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        // TODO(eric): We have to make sure that the author is
        // allowed to
        // 1. update this role

>         // 2. add this *permission* to this role

Reviewer 4: stale todo?

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        // TODO(eric): We have to make sure that the author is
        // allowed to
        // 1. update this role
        // 2. add this *permission* to this role
        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check can_change_role_perms(author.device_id, this.role_id)

        // The role must not already have the permission.
        //
        // TODO(eric): Should this case be a no-op or an error?
        check !role_has_simple_perm(this.role_id, this.perm)

>         let perm_str = simple_perm_to_str(this.perm)

Reviewer: A perm string was originally passed into the `add_perm_to_role()` action.
This means we're converting from str -> enum -> str.
What if we pass in the perm string as a field of `AddPermToRole`, then convert that to an enum in the policy block?
That way, we can directly return the perm string as an effect without another type conversion.

Author: No point in putting strings into commands when we can use an enum instead. Just wastes more space. The runtime overhead of converting str -> enum -> str should be negligible.

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)

        // Removing a permission does not *escalate* privilege,
        // so unlike `AddPermToRole` we only need to check that
        // the author is allowed to change the role's permissions.

>         check can_change_role_perms(author.device_id, this.role_id)

Reviewer: So currently, we are checking that the author has permission to change the role perms with:
`check can_change_role_perms(author.device_id, this.role_id)`.
But we are not yet checking that the author has permission to update the role?

>         check can_change_role_perms(author.device_id, this.role_id)

Reviewer 4: Is this thread even denoting a change we need to make? It isnt clear to me that changes are required.

>         check can_change_role_perms(author.device_id, this.role_id)

Reviewer: I'm going to mark this as resolved.

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::ChangeRoleManagingRole)
        check device_owns_role(author.device_id, this.target_role_id)

        check exists OwnsRole[
            target_role_id: this.target_role_id,
            owning_role_id: this.owning_role_id,
        ]

>         check at_least 2 OwnsRole[

Reviewer: Is the intended behavior that once a device has an owning role assigned to it, it must always have at least 1 owning role assigned to it? So the last owning role cannot be removed?

Author: Yes

    //
    // We do NOT know whether `role_id` refers to a role that
    // exists.
    return exists CanRevokeRole[
        target_role_id: target_role_id,
        managing_role_id: device_role_id,
    ]
}

// Grants devices who have been assigned the managing role
// permission to change the permissions of the target role.
//
// # Foreign Keys
//
// - `target_role_id` refers to the `Role` fact
// - `managing_role_id` refers to the `Role` fact
fact CanChangeRolePerms[target_role_id id, managing_role_id id]=>{}

// Reports whether the device is allowed to change the permissions
// of the role.
//
// # Errors
//
// This function raises a check error if the device has not been
// assigned a role.
//
// # Caveats
//
// - This function does NOT check whether the device exists.
// - This function does NOT check whether the role exists.
//
// # Ensures
//
// If true, `CanChangeRolePerms(target_role_id, device_role_id)` holds.
function can_change_role_perms(device_id id, target_role_id id) bool {
    let device_role_id = get_assigned_role_id(device_id)

    // At this point we believe the following to be true:
    //
    // - `device_role_id` refers to a role that exists

>     // - `device_role_id` refers to the role revoked to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // - `device_role_id` refers to the role assigned to
```

    //   `device_id`
    //

>     // We do NOT know whether `device_id` refers to a device

Reviewer: Wouldn't `get_assigned_role_id(device_id)` fail if the device doesn't exist?
`let assigned_role = check_unwrap query AssignedRole[device_id: device_id]` should fail if there is no assigned role for a device and I don't think we should be allowed to assign roles to devices that don't exist.

    // that exists.
    //

>     // We do NOT know whether `role_id` refers to a role that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // We do NOT know whether `target_role_id` refers to a role that
```

    managing_role_id id,
    // The permission that was granted.
    // TODO(eric): Should we convert this to an enum? That would
    // make `RoleManagementPerm` part of the public API.
    perm string,
    // The ID of the device that changed the management
    // permissions.
    author_id id,
}

command AssignRoleManagementPerm {
    fields {
        // The ID of the role whose management permission is being
        // assigned.
        target_role_id id,
        // The ID of the role that is being assigned the
        // management permission.
        managing_role_id id,
        // The permission that is being assigned.
        perm enum RoleManagementPerm,
    }

    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check device_owns_role(author.device_id, this.target_role_id)

        // Make sure we uphold the invariants for
        // `CanAssignRole`, `CanRevokeRole`, and
        // `CanChangeRolePerms`.
        check exists Role[role_id: this.target_role_id]
        check exists Role[role_id: this.managing_role_id]

>         let perm = role_management_perm_to_str(this.perm)

Reviewer 2: We had some discussion about this and we believe it's fine that this is controlled by who owns the role.

        perm: perm_enum,
    }
}

// Emitted when the `RevokeRoleManagementPerm` command is
// successfully processed.
effect RoleManagementPermRevoked {
    // The ID of the role whose management permission was
    // changed.
    target_role_id id,
    // The ID of the role that had its management permission
    // removed.
    managing_role_id id,
    // The permission that was revoked.
    // TODO(eric): Should we convert this to an enum? That would
    // make `RoleManagementPerm` part of the public API.
    perm string,
    // The ID of the device that changed the management
    // permissions.
    author_id id,
}

command RevokeRoleManagementPerm {
    fields {
        // The ID of the role whose management permission is being
        // removed.
        target_role_id id,
        // The ID of the role that is having its management
        // permission removed.
        managing_role_id id,
        // The permission that is being removed.
        perm enum RoleManagementPerm,
    }

    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)

>         check device_owns_role(author.device_id, this.target_role_id)

Reviewer: Ditto on checking if the current device has the `CanChangeRolePerms` perm assigned to its role first before modifying role permissions.

                        managing_role_id: this.managing_role_id,
                        perm: perm,
                        author_id: author.device_id,
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Role Creation

Upon creation, a team only has one role: the `owner` role,
assigned to the team owner. Afterward, the owner can create
additional roles as needed.

Devices are notified about new roles via the `RoleCreated`
effect.

```policy
// The input to `create_default_role` since the policy language
// has neither named args nor good IDE support.
struct DefaultRole {
    // The ID of the role.
    role_id id,
    // The name of the role.
    name string,
    // The ID of the device that created the role.
    author_id id,
    // The ID of the initial role owner.
    owning_role_id id,
}

// Creates the following facts for a default role
//
// - Role
// - OwnsRole
// - CanAssignRole
// - CanRevokeRole
// - CanChangeRolePerms
finish function create_default_role(role struct DefaultRole) {
    // TODO(eric): check invariants like `managing_role_id` must
    // exist, author must exist, etc?

>     create Role[role_id: role.role_id]=>{

Reviewer: I only see the `Role` fact created inside `create_default_role()`. Does this mean no roles other than the default roles can be created? I thought we were going to support creation of arbitrary custom roles.

> **Note**: Custom roles are under development and will be
> generally available after MVP.

#### Default Roles

The `setup_default_roles` action creates exactly three default
roles with fixed names.

- `admin`
    - Can create and delete labels
    - Can change label managing roles
    - Can unset AQC network names
    - Typically manages the `operator` role
- `operator`
    - Can assign and revoke labels
    - Can set and unset AQC network names
    - Typically manages the `member` role
- `member`
    - Can create and delete AFC and AQC channels (for labels they
      have been granted permission to use)

**Important**: The owner role (created during team creation) should
be used sparingly. After setting up default roles, the owner
credentials should be stored securely (e.g., in an HSM) and only
used for emergency "break glass" scenarios.

To guard against accidental replays, each default role records a
`DefaultRoleSeeded` fact the first time it is created. Subsequent
attempts to seed the same default role will fail the policy checks
before any storage writes occur, and the managing role supplied to
`setup_default_roles` must already exist on the team.

```policy

> // TODO: create these?

Reviewer: Is this TODO still relevant? It looks like policy code has already been added to create default roles.

Reviewer: Is that supposed to happen on this PR?

Author: If we want to? I haven't decided either way. AFAICT it doesn't seem to be terribly important either way.

                    assign_perm_to_role(role_id, SimplePerm::CreateAqcUniChannel)
                    assign_perm_to_role(role_id, SimplePerm::CreateAqcBidiChannel)

                    assign_perm_to_role(role_id, SimplePerm::CanUseAfc)
                    assign_perm_to_role(role_id, SimplePerm::CreateAfcUniChannel)
                    assign_perm_to_role(role_id, SimplePerm::CreateAfcBidiChannel)

                    emit RoleCreated {
                        role_id: role_id,
                        name: name,
                        author_id: author.device_id,
                        owning_role_id: this.owning_role_id,
                        default: true,
                    }

                    create DefaultRoleSeeded[
                        name: this.name,
                    ]=>{role_id: role_id}
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Role Deletion

TODO

### Role Assignment

A device can be assigned zero or one roles.

```policy
// Records that a device has been assigned a role.
//
// # Foreign Keys
//
// - `device_id` refers to the `Device` fact
// - `role_id` refers to the `Role` fact
//
// # Caveats
//

> // This fact is NOT deleted when a role is deleted. Use one of

Reviewer: We could achieve a similar effect as deletion by assigning an invalid role id that's only available to the policy and not known via the policy interface.

Author: That's too hacky.

    create AssignedRole[device_id: device_id]=>{role_id: role_id}
    create RoleAssignmentIndex[role_id: role_id, device_id: device_id]=>{}
}

// Deletes an existing role assignment and its index entry.
finish function delete_role_assignment(device_id id, role_id id) {
    delete AssignedRole[device_id: device_id]
    delete RoleAssignmentIndex[role_id: role_id, device_id: device_id]
}

// Updates a device's role assignment and corresponding index entry.
finish function update_role_assignment(
    device_id id,
    old_role_id id,
    new_role_id id,
) {
    update AssignedRole[device_id: device_id]=>{role_id: old_role_id} to {
        role_id: new_role_id,
    }

    delete RoleAssignmentIndex[
        role_id: old_role_id,
        device_id: device_id,
    ]

    create RoleAssignmentIndex[
        role_id: new_role_id,
        device_id: device_id,
    ]=>{}
}

// Returns the role assigned to the device if it exists.
//
// # Caveats
//
// - It does NOT check whether the device exists.
function try_get_assigned_role(device_id id) optional struct Role {
    let assigned_role = query AssignedRole[device_id: device_id]
    if assigned_role is None {
        return None
    }

>     let role = query Role[role_id: (unwrap assigned_role).role_id]
>     if role is None {
>         // The role doesn't exist. See the comment in
>         // `get_assigned_role` for more information.
>         return None
>     }
>     return Some(unwrap role)

Reviewer: Is this equivalent to this?
```suggestion
    return query Role[role_id: (unwrap assigned_role).role_id]
```

    //    we do not support prefix deletion).
    // 2. We have an internal consistency error.
    //
    // Option (1) is the most likely and we can't really check
    // for (2) here.
    let role = check_unwrap query Role[role_id: assigned_role.role_id]

    return role
}

// Reports whether the provided role represents the default owner role.
function is_owner(role struct Role) bool {
    return role.default && role.name == "owner"
}

// Returns the ID of the role assigned to the device.
//
// # Errors
//
// This function raises a check error if the device has not been
// assigned a role.
//
// # Caveats
//
// - It does NOT check whether the device exists.
function get_assigned_role_id(device_id id) id {
    return get_assigned_role(device_id).role_id
}

// Returns the ID of the role assigned to the device if it exists.
//
// # Caveats
//
// - It does NOT check whether the device exists.
function try_get_assigned_role_id(device_id id) optional id {
    let role = try_get_assigned_role(device_id)
    if role is None {
        return None
    }
    return Some((unwrap role).role_id)
}

// Assigns the specified role to the device.
//

> // It is an error if the device has already been assigned a role.

Reviewer: May be worth mentioning here that `ChangeRole` is the command for changing what role is assigned to a device.
Otherwise, the reader may assume from this that assigning a different role after the initial role is assigned isn't supported.

        // The target device must exist.
        check exists Device[device_id: this.device_id]

        // Device must not already have a role assigned; use ChangeRole instead.
        check !exists AssignedRole[device_id: this.device_id]

        // Ensure the role index is also clear before creating a new assignment.
        check !exists RoleAssignmentIndex[
            role_id: this.role_id,
            device_id: this.device_id,
        ]

        // At this point we believe the following to be true:
        //
        // - the team is active
        // - `this.device_id` refers to a device that exists
        // - `this.role_id` refers to a role that exists
        // - `author` is not assigning the role to itself
        // - `author` has the `AssignRole` permission
        // - `author` is allowed to manage `this.role_id`
        // - the device does not already hold `this.role_id`
        finish {
            create_role_assignment(this.device_id, this.role_id)

            emit RoleAssigned {
                device_id: this.device_id,
                role_id: this.role_id,
                author_id: author.device_id,
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> ### Role Changing

Reviewer: Note that `ChangeRole` would likely be removed if we decide to support more than one role per device in the future. So this may not be an API we want to support from a backward compatibility standpoint. `AssignRole` and `RevokeRole` would still apply with more than one role per device.

Author: We're unlikely to add support for multiple roles in the near or medium term future. The problem is that we cannot select the appropriate role for a task in O(1) time (in a user friendly way, anyway).

Either we would need to realize we overlooked some way of doing it with the current policy language (unlikely), or rearchitect the policy language (not on our TODO list).

```policy
// Changes a device's role.
//
// # Required Permissions
//
// - `RevokeRole` for the old role
// - `AssignRole` for the new role
// - `CanRevokeRole(old_role_id)`
// - `CanAssignRole(new_role_id)`
action change_role(
    device_id id,
    old_role_id id,
    new_role_id id,
) {
    publish ChangeRole {
        device_id: device_id,
        old_role_id: old_role_id,
        new_role_id: new_role_id,
    }
}

// Emitted when a device's role is changed.
effect RoleChanged {
    // The ID of the device whose role is being changed.
    device_id id,
    // The ID of the device's old role.

>     old_role_id id,

Reviewer: I don't think the caller should be required to provide the old role ID in order to change the role to something else.
We can look up the role that's currently assigned to the device then check if the caller has permission to revoke that role and assign the new role. It makes the API more difficult to use because the application needs to stash the old role ID somewhere or query it before changing the role.

    // The ID of the device's new role.
    new_role_id id,
    // The ID of the device that changed the device's role.
    author_id id,
}

command ChangeRole {
    fields {
        // The ID of the device being assigned the role.
        device_id id,
        // The ID of the device's old role.
        old_role_id id,
        // The new role being assigned to the device.
        new_role_id id,
    }

    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)

        // Devices cannot assign roles to themselves.
        check author.device_id != this.device_id

        // TODO(eric): Should this just be a no-op?
        check this.old_role_id != this.new_role_id

        // The author must have permission to revoke the old role.
        let old_role = check_unwrap query Role[role_id: this.old_role_id]
        check can_revoke_role(author.device_id, this.old_role_id)

>         check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::RevokeRole)

Reviewer: Similar thoughts on `can_assign_role()`

>         // The author must have permission to revoke the old role.

Reviewer: Copy-paste typo from above:
```suggestion
        // The author must have permission to assign the new role.
```

        // be true:
        //
        // - `this.old_role_id` and `this.new_role_id` are
        //   different
        // - `this.old_role_id` refers to a role that exists
        // - `author` is allowed to manage `this.old_role_id`
        // - `author` has the `RevokeRole` permission
        // - `this.new_role_id` refers to a role that exists
        // - `author` is allowed to manage `this.new_role_id`
        // - `author` has the `AddRole` permission
        finish {
            update_role_assignment(
                this.device_id,
                this.old_role_id,
                this.new_role_id,
            )

            emit RoleChanged {
                device_id: this.device_id,
                new_role_id: this.new_role_id,
                old_role_id: this.old_role_id,
                author_id: author.device_id,
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Role Revocation

```policy
// Revokes the specified role from the device.
//
// # Required Permissions
//
// - `RevokeRole`
// - `CanRevokeRole(role_id)`
action revoke_role(device_id id, role_id id) {
    publish RevokeRole {
        device_id: device_id,

>         role_id: role_id,

Reviewer: Why does the caller need to know the role of a device before revoking the role?
Since a device can only have one role, the result of a role revocation will be that the device no longer has any roles assigned to it.
I could see a reason to specify the role to revoke if it was possible to assign multiple roles to a device.

One reason to keep this input could be if the caller only wants to revoke the role if it is a specific role.
Querying the role before revoking it could be brittle if it changes before revocation and the caller accidentally revokes the wrong role.
Another reason could be for backward compatibility if we add more roles per device in the future.

    ]
}

// Adds a new role that can manage the label.
//
// # Required Permissions
//
// - `SimplePerm::ChangeLabelManagingRole`
// - `CanManageLabel(label_id)`
action add_label_managing_role(label_id id, managing_role_id id) {
    publish AddLabelManagingRole {
        label_id: label_id,
        managing_role_id: managing_role_id,
    }
}

effect LabelManagingRoleAdded {
    // The ID of the label that was updated.
    label_id id,
    // The ID of the role that can manage the label.
    managing_role_id id,
    // The ID of the device that added the managing role.
    author_id id,
}

command AddLabelManagingRole {
    fields {
        // The label to update.
        label_id id,
        // The ID of the role that can manage the label.
        managing_role_id id,
    }

    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::ChangeLabelManagingRole)
        check can_manage_label(author.device_id, this.label_id)

        // Make sure we uphold `CanManageLabel`'s foreign keys.

>         check exists Label[label_id: this.label_id]

Reviewer: Maybe the order doesn't matter but it seems a bit more intuitive to check if the label and role exist first, before checking their permissions

}

command DeleteLabel {
    fields {
        // The unique ID of the label being deleted.
        label_id id,
    }

    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::DeleteLabel)
        check can_manage_label(author.device_id, this.label_id)

        // We can't query the label after it's been deleted, so
        // make sure we pull all of its info out of the fact
        // database.
        let label = check_unwrap query Label[label_id: this.label_id]

        // At this point we believe the following to be true:
        //
        // - the team is active
        // - `author` has the `DeleteLabel` permission
        // - `author` is allowed to manage `this.label_id`
        // - `this.label_id` refers to a label that exists
        finish {
            // TODO(eric): We can't delete these yet because the
            // storage layer does not yet support prefix deletion.
            // See https://github.com/aranya-project/aranya-core/issues/229
            //

>             // delete AssignedLabel[label_id: label.label_id, device_id: ?]

Reviewer: Looks like the fact name changed since this comment was written:
```suggestion
            // delete LabelAssignedToDevice[label_id: label.label_id, device_id: ?]
```

                label_id: this.label_id,
                author_id: author.device_id,
            }
        }
    }
}
```

##### Label Assignment to Devices

```policy
// Records that a device was granted permission to use a label
// for certain channel operations.
//
// # Foreign Keys
//
// - `label_id` refers to the `Label` fact.
// - `device_id` refers to the `Device` fact.
//
// # Caveats
//
// We do not yet support prefix deletion, so this fact is NOT
// deleted when the label or the role are deleted. Use TODO to
// verify whether a role is allowed to use the label instead of
// checking this fact directly.
fact LabelAssignedToDevice[label_id id, device_id id]=>{op enum ChanOp, device_gen int}

// Grants the device permission to use the label.
//
// - It is an error if the author does not have the role required
//   to assign this label.
// - It is an error if `device_id` refers to the author (devices
//   are never allowed to assign labels to themselves).
// - It is an error if the device does not exist.
// - It is an error if the label does not exist.
// - It is an error if the device has already been granted
//   permission to use this label for its current generation.

> // - It is an error if the device is not permitted to use AQC.

Reviewer: or AFC

Reviewer: It seems like it should be okay to assign a label if a device isn't permitted to use AQC or AFC yet. They should just need AQC or AFC enabled in order to use the label.

            // - `this.label_id` refers to a label that exists
            finish {
                create LabelAssignedToDevice[
                    label_id: this.label_id,
                    device_id: this.device_id,
                ]=>{
                    op: this.op,
                    device_gen: current_gen,
                }

                emit AssignedLabelToDevice {
                    device: this.device_id,
                    label_id: this.label_id,
                    author_id: author.device_id,
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### Label Revocation

```policy
// Revokes permission to use a label from a role.
//
// - It is an error if the role does not exist.
// - It is an error if the label does not exist.
// - It is an error if the role has not been granted permission
//   to use this label.
//
// # Required Permissions
//
// - `RevokeLabel`
// - `CanManageLabel(label_id)`
action revoke_label_from_role(role_id id, label_id id) {
    publish RevokeLabelFromRole {
        role_id: role_id,
        label_id: label_id,
    }
}

// Emitted when the `RevokeLabelFromRole` command is successfully
// processed.

> effect LabelRevokedFromRole {

Reviewer: nit: could return the name of the label here. I believe we return the name of the role for several of the role related effects.

Reviewer 2: Also moot since removing labels assigned to devices.

                label_id: this.label_id,
                label_name: label.name,
                label_author_id: label.author_id,
                author_id: author.device_id,
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### Label Lookup

```policy
// Returns the channel operation for a particular label, or `None`
// if the device does not have permission to use the label.
//
// # Caveats
//
// - It does NOT check whether the device exists.
function get_allowed_chan_op_for_label(device_id id, label_id id) optional enum ChanOp {
    // First test to see if the device's role has been granted
    // permission to use the label.
    let role_id = get_assigned_role_id(device_id)
    let assigned_to_role = query LabelAssignedToRole[
        label_id: label_id,
        role_id: role_id,
    ]

    // Now see if the device was directly granted permission
    // to use the label.
    let assigned_to_dev = query LabelAssignedToDevice[
        label_id: label_id,
        device_id: device_id,
    ]

    let role_op = if assigned_to_role is Some {
        : Some((unwrap assigned_to_role).op)
    } else {
        : None
    }
    let device_op = device_assignment_op(device_id, assigned_to_dev)

>     if role_op is None {

Reviewer: It would be more efficient to return a result as soon as either the role or device query returns some value.
Otherwise, we need to run both queries each time before returning a result.

Author: It chooses the more permissive of the two, so you always have to perform two queries (unless one is bidi I guess).

) bool {
    let maybe_gen = query DeviceGeneration[device_id: device_id]
    if maybe_gen is None {
        return false
    }
    return (unwrap maybe_gen).generation == assignment_gen
}
```

#### Label Queries

Label queries retrieve information about labels on the team.

See [Query APIs][query-apis] for more information about the query
APIs.

##### `query_label`

Returns a specific label if it exists.

```policy
// Emits `QueryLabelResult` for the label if it exists.
// If the label does not exist then no effects are emitted.
ephemeral action query_label(label_id id) {
    publish QueryLabel {
        label_id: label_id,
    }
}

effect QueryLabelResult {
    // The label's unique ID.
    label_id id,
    // The label name.
    label_name string,
    // The ID of the device that created the label.
    label_author_id id,
}

ephemeral command QueryLabel {
    fields {
        label_id id,
    }

    // TODO(eric): We don't really need to call `seal_command`
    // or `open_envelope` here since this is a local query API.
    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

>         let maybe_label = query Label[label_id: this.label_id]

Reviewer: May want to check `can_use_aqc()` on the channel creation commands

Reviewer: No longer applies now that aqc has been removed.

            if exists Label[label_id: f.label_id] {
                let label = check_unwrap query Label[label_id: f.label_id]
                publish QueryLabelsAssignedToRole {
                    role_id: f.role_id,
                    label_id: f.label_id,
                    label_name: label.name,
                    label_author_id: label.author_id,
                }
            }
        }
    }
}

effect QueryLabelsAssignedToRoleResult {
    // The role the label is assigned to.
    role_id id,
    // The label's unique ID.
    label_id id,
    // The label name.
    label_name string,
    // The ID of the device that created the label.
    label_author_id id,
}

ephemeral command QueryLabelsAssignedToRole {
    fields {
        role_id id,
        label_id id,
        label_name string,
        label_author_id id,
    }

    // TODO(eric): We don't really need to call `seal_command`
    // or `open_envelope` here since this is a local query API.
    seal { return seal_command(serialize(this)) }
    open { return deserialize(open_envelope(envelope)) }

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        if !exists Role[role_id: this.role_id] {

>             // TODO(eric): Or should we raise a check error?

Reviewer: Probably? If I'm running a query on a role, I'm assuming the role exists.

        finish {
            create AssignedLabelToDevice[
                label_id: label.label_id,
                device_id: target.device_id,
            ]=>{op: this.op}

            emit LabelAssignedToDevice {
                device_id: this.device_id,
                label_id: this.label_id,
                author_id: author.device_id,
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### Label Revocation

```policy
// Revokes permission to use a label from a role.
//
// - It is an error if the role does not exist.
// - It is an error if the label does not exist.
// - It is an error if the role has not been granted permission
//   to use this label.
//
// # Required Permissions
//
// - `RevokeLabel`
// - `CanManageLabel(label_id)`
action revoke_label_from_role(role_id id, label_id id) {
    publish RevokeLabelFromDevice {
        role_id: role_id,
        label_id: label_id,
    }
}

// Emitted when the `RevokeLabel` command is successfully
// processed.
effect LabelRevokedFromRole {
    // The ID of the role that had the label revoked.
    role_id id,
    // The ID of the label that was revoked.
    label_id id,
    // The ID of the device that revoked the label.
    author_id id,
}

> command RevokeLabelFromDevice {
>     fields {
>         // The target role.
>         role_id id,
>         // The label being assigned to the target device.
>         label_id id,
>     }

Reviewer: While adding command priorities, I noticed there are 2 `RevokeLabelFromDevice` commands in this policy file. Guessing this one is supposed to be `RevokeLabelFromRole`.
```suggestion
command RevokeLabelFromRole {
    fields {
        // The target role.
        role_id id,
        // The label being revoked from role.
        label_id id,
    }
```

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let sender = get_author(envelope)
        let sender_id = sender.device_id
        check device_has_simple_perm(sender_id, SimplePerm::CreateAfcUniChannel)

        let receiver_id = this.receiver_id
        let receiver = check_unwrap try_find_device(receiver_id)

        // The label must exist.
        let label = check_unwrap query Label[label_id: this.label_id]

        // Check that both devices have been granted permission
        // to use the label for their respective directions.

>         check can_create_afc_uni_channel(sender_id, receiver_id, label.label_id)

Reviewer: Don't worry about making these changes on this PR.
I've updated the logic on the channel deletion PR because I needed it for the channel validity query.
https://github.com/aranya-project/aranya/pull/542

>         check can_create_afc_uni_channel(sender_id, receiver_id, label.label_id)

Reviewer: PR was merged in so this is resolved.

        label_id,
    )

    /* TODO: need to update afc-util
    publish AfcCreateBidiChannel {
        channel_id: ch.channel_id,
        peer_id: peer_id,
        label_id: label_id,
        peer_encap: ch.peer_encap,
        author_secrets_id: ch.author_secrets_id,
    }
    */
}

// Reports whether the devices have permission to create
// a bidirectional AFC channel with each other.
//
// # Caveats
//
// - It does NOT check whether the devices exist.
function can_create_afc_bidi_channel(device1 id, device2 id, label_id id) bool {
    // Devices cannot create channels with themselves.
    //
    // This should have been caught by the AFC FFI, so check
    // instead of just returning false.

>     check device1 != device2

Reviewer: Although since AFC doesn't have network identifiers we can't use a check like AQC does:
```
function aqc_net_id(device_id id) optional string {
    let f = query AqcNetId[device_id: device_id]
    if f is Some {
        return Some((unwrap f).net_id)
    }
    return None
}
```
Do we assume all devices can always use AFC? Or add an action for enabling it?
Can devices enable AFC for themselves? Or should they rely on another device/role enabling it first?

>     check device1 != device2

Reviewer 2: AFC is gated by the `CanUseAfc` perm on roles. And by default, the `member` role has that permission exclusively.

As for checking proper permissions, `CanUseAfc` and `CreateAfcUniChannel` are checked at the bottom of `afc_uni_channel_is_valid()`.

>     check device1 != device2

Reviewer: This was resolved by permissions checks I merged in with the AFC channel deletion changes.

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::CreateAfcBidiChannel)
        let peer = get_device(this.peer_id)

        // The label must exist.
        let label = check_unwrap query Label[label_id: this.label_id]

        // Check that both devices have been granted permission

>         // to use the label for for send and recv.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // to use the label for send and recv.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this got removed with AFC bidi channels, so it's moot.

        } else {
            :this.sender_id
        }
        let peer = check_unwrap try_find_device(peer_id)

        // The label must exist.
        let label = check_unwrap query Label[label_id: this.label_id]

        // Check that both devices have been granted permission

>         // to use the label for their respective direcitons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // to use the label for their respective directions.
```

```policy
// Reports whether `size` is a valid PSK length (in bytes).
//
// Per the AQC specification, PSKs must be in the range [32, 2^16).
function is_valid_psk_length(size int) bool {
    return size >= 32 && size < 65536
}
```

#### Network IDs

Each device that wants to participate in an AQC channel must be
assigned a _network identifier_. A network identifier is an
opaque string that is used to identify the device on the network.
This can be a hostname, an IP address, or any other string that
that operating system understands.

```policy
// Stores a device's associated network identifier for AQC.
fact AqcNetId[device_id id]=>{net_id string}

function can_use_aqc(device_id id) bool {
    // A device can use AQC if it has an AQC network ID.
    return exists AqcNetId[device_id: device_id]
}

// Returns the device's AQC network identifier, if it exists.
//
// # Caveats
//
// This function does NOT check whether the device exists.
function aqc_net_id(device_id id) optional string {
    let f = query AqcNetId[device_id: device_id]
    if f is Some {
        return Some((unwrap f).net_id)
    }
    return None
}

// TODO(eric): Why do we call it both a "network ID" and

> // "network name"?

Reviewer: idk. I thought the spec referred to a network identifier.

Reviewer 2: Moot since the removal of AQC.

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::SetAqcNetworkName)
        let device = get_device(this.device_id)

>         check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::SetAqcNetworkName)

Reviewer: I think this line should be removed.
```suggestion
```

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::UnsetAqcNetworkName)
        let device = get_device(this.device_id)
        check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::UnsetAqcNetworkName)

        check exists AqcNetId[device_id: this.device_id]

        finish {
            delete AqcNetId[device_id: this.device_id]

            emit AqcNetworkNameUnset {

>                 device_id: device.device_id,

Reviewer: May want to return the `net_id` string here

    policy {
        check team_exists()

        let author = get_author(envelope)
        check device_has_simple_perm(author.device_id, SimplePerm::CreateAqcBidiChannel)
        let peer = get_device(this.peer_id)

        check is_valid_psk_length(this.psk_length_in_bytes)

        // The label must exist.
        let label = check_unwrap query Label[label_id: this.label_id]

        // Check that both devices have been granted permission

>         // to use the label for for send and recv.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // to use the label for send and recv.
```
